# Blockchain-Secured-Pension-System

The traditional pension system that we use currently is centralised. This means that the data is stored and controlled by a central server. The users whose data is stored in the server has no control over it once it has been stored in the database. This is not the most secure way to keep data under the control of single authority because nobody but a single authority is responsible for every change in data be it major or minute.

Using blockchain technology we are aiming to achieve decentralization of this data. Every individual will have complete ownership of their own data. Along with this, the blockchain technology provides a high level of security. Blockchain uses the ECC (Elliptic Curve Cryptography) encryption algorithm to secure the data it contains. The data in blockchain cannot be hacked or tampered because the copy is maintained by all the members of the blockchain. So for any change to take place, it has to be first verified by all the members of the chain. It also provides CIA - Consistency, Integrity and Availability properties and this makes it reliable along with providing supreme security.

We are designing an application that will save the pension data in the blockchain which will be entered by the user itself. The application’s front-end will be made using Flutter and smart contracts using Solidity. For the middleware we will be using web3.py or Moralis and use truffle/hardhat as the development environment on local machine to show the prototype.
